# Maze Problem
Here is the 10x10 maze problem that is solved by A* algorithm.\
This little project has 2 files ("**main.py**" and "**maze_class.py**") that "**main.py**" is just a fast test for the main written algorithm ("**maze_class.py**").
## main.py
Just run this file by ```python3 main.py``` to see how the algorithm works.
## maze_class.py
Our main code is here.\
I declared 7 diffrent classes that are like this:
* **Environment Class**
* **Maze Class**
* **Node Class**
* **Position Class**
* **Direction Class**
* **State Class**
* **Colors Class**
### Environment Class
The biggest class in the project.\
This class involves the solving algorithm using __A*__.\
There are two functions named "**start_solve**" and "**solve**" that "**start_solve**" is an initialization for A* Algorithm and after initialization "**start_solve**" starts "**solve**" function.\
"__solve__" function returns one of the two States of __State Enum Class__(_State.Failure_ or _State.Victory_) to determine if A* found any answer for the maze or the autogenerated maze is not solvable.
### Maze Class
__Maze Class__ is the second biggest class after __Environment Class__.\
This class has a 10x10 dictionary named "__nodes__" with keys like (x, y) and values of __Node__ object.\
Also with printing a maze object, you can see the actual graphical autogenerated maze and if the maze is solved, you can see the answer path too.\
This class will generate blocks and creates a random maze with just calling "**block**" function that will be called in initialization of **Environment Class** automatically.
### Node Class
This class is used to have some functions like "**f_set**" to set the heuristic of that node based on goal's location using previous "**g**" 's node variable. (I mean "**g**" attribute of the __parent__ node that extended this one)\
"**g**" attribute of every node means the cost until arriving to the node.\
"**f**" attribute of every node equals to (("**g**" attribute of previous node + 1) + returned value of "**h**" function in the node) that this functionality is handled in "**f_set**" function in every node.\
"**h**" function of every node returns predicted cost of the node until it arrives to goal.\
Every node is limited in actions and these limited actions are recorded in "**blocked_directions**" attribute of every node.
### Position Class
This class is used for start and goal position of algorithm.\
There are two global variables named "__me__" and "__goal__" that are objects of this class.
### Direction Class
Used as an Enum Class to determine where side of a node is blocked or where is permitted to go and where to go to find our goal.
### Colors Class
An Enum Class that has some color codes used for beauty of maze.
### State Class
Used as an Enum Class to determine if the algorithm result was successful or not.